README.md, before:

Category Posts Widget
=====================

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/mkrdip/category-posts-widget](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/mkrdip/category-posts-widget?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Adds a widget that shows the most recent posts from a single category.

**Contributors:** Mrinal, Mark, Daniel

**Donate link:** http://mkrdip.me/donate

**License:** GPLv2 or later

**License URI:** http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html


## Description
Category Posts Widget is a light widget designed to do one thing and do it well: display the most recent posts from a certain category.

### Term and Category based Posts Widget
A <a target="_blank" href="http://tiptoppress.com/?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=premium_widget_cpw&utm_medium=web">premium version</a> of this free widget here created for big Wordpress sites.
We've also started creating free widget extensions for the Premium Widget. The first extension is the <a href="https://github.com/tiptoppress/excerpt-extension">Excerpt Extension</a>.

### Premium features
* "Post List Alterations"
* Masonry (Responsive grid layouts)
* Grid and Column full page layouts
* Slider (Vertical and horizontal)
* More complex ways to filter (all, any, exclude, also childes, AND or just OR rule)
* Categories, Custom Post Types, Taxonomies, Events, Products, ...
* Full background post images
* Mouse hover effects for post thumbnail
* <a target="_blank" href="http://tiptoppress.com/category/extensions/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=premium_features_extensions&utm_medium=web">Extensions</a>
* E-Mail support
* All free features
* Free trail on localhost
* More [examples on the demo pages](http://demo.tiptoppress.com/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=premium_features_demo&utm_medium=web)

### Features
* Shortcode (Easily change all Shortcode options in the customizer).
* Support multiple shortcodes at the same post.
* Add option for post offset (use two or more widgets after another).
* Add UI buttons in the editor toolbar to insert shortcode.
* Option to touch device friendly "everything is a link".
* For editing shortcode adds a Customizer link to the admin-bar ("With one click to the Customizer").
* Option to show post thumbnail & set dimensions by width & height.
* Option for <a target="_blank" href="http://tiptoppress.com/css-image-crop/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=features_crop_cpw&utm_medium=web">client-side cropped thumbnail dimensions</a> by width & height.
* Fluid images for Responsive Layouts.
* Option to set mouse hover effects for post thumbnail.
* Set a thumbnail as default thumbnail.
* Add option to enable excerpt filters from Themes and plugins.
* Jetpack 'Social buttons on posts' support.
* Add option to disable social buttons, banner, ... in the excerpt.
* Option to change ordering of posts.
* Set which category the posts should come form.
* Add dropdownbox entry for 'all' categories.
* Option to filter by post status.
* Set how many posts to show.
* Option to hide widget, if category have currently no posts.
* Add option to disable subcategories.
* Option to put thumbnail on top.
* Option to hide posts which have no thumbnail.
* Option exclude current post.
* Option to hide the widget title and post titles.
* Option to make the widget title link to the category page.
* Option to show the post excerpt, set the length, allow HTML and change 'more' text.
* Option show post author.
* Option to show the comment count.
* Option to show the post date.
* Option to make the widget date link to the category page.
* Option to format the outputted date string.
* Option to link to the category page below posts list.
* Option to disable the widget CSS or more granular control of default styling with not apply the font styles.
* Multiple widgets.
* Multi sites support.
* Support localization with translate.wordpress.org
* Use WP user profile for settings ('auto close' and if the shortcode button appears in the editor toolbar).

### Documentation
* Full documentation on [tiptoppress.com](http://tiptoppress.com/category-posts-widget/documentation-4-7/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=documentation_4_7_cpw&utm_medium=web)
* Shortcode: Use [catposts] [in the content and edit options in the customizer](http://tiptoppress.com/use-shortcode-to-add-category-posts-widget-to-the-content/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=documentation_shortcode_cpw&utm_medium=web)
* Formatting date and time: See <a target="_blank" href="https://codex.wordpress.org/Formatting_Date_and_Time">Formatting Date and Time</a>

### Contribute
While using this plugin if you find any bug or any conflict, please submit an issue at
[Github](https://github.com/tiptoppress/category-posts-widget) (If possible with a pull request).

## Installation
### Automatic installation
Automatic installation is the easiest option as WordPress handles the file transfers itself and you don’t need to leave your web browser. To do an automatic install of Category Posts Widget,

1. log in to your WordPress dashboard, navigate to the Plugins menu and click Add New.
2. In the search field type “Category Posts Widget” and click Search Plugins.
3. Once you’ve found plugin, you can install it by simply clicking “Install Now”.
4. Then, go to plugins page of WordPress admin activate the plugin.
5. Now, goto the Widgets page of the Appearance section and configure the Category Posts widget.

### Manual installation
1. Download the plugin.
2. Upload it to the plugins folder of your blog.
3. Activate the plugin through the 'Plugins' menu in WordPress
4. Now, goto the Widgets page of the Appearance section and configure the Category Posts widget.

## Upgrade Notice
* Please consider to re-configure the widget as the latest version has numerous changes from previous.
* Version 4.0 uses CSS file for styling the widget in front end.
* Version 3.0 or later version uses WordPress 2.9's built in post thumbnail functionality.

## Frequently Asked Questions
= Thumb and Title not able to float left =
Check the option in the Thumbnails panels > "Show thumbnails above text".
Then add this custom CSS:

.cat-post-thumbnail {
	float: left !important;
}

If you use wordpress 4.7 or higher you can [add this custom CSS with the customizer](http://kometschuh.de/Easily-adding-custom-CSS-using-the-WordPress-Theme-customizer.html/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=faq_cpw&utm_medium=web)

For more layout options please try our premium widget: [Term and Category based Posts Widget](http://tiptoppress.com/term-and-category-based-posts-widget/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=faq_cpw&utm_medium=web).

= The font-size is different from that of other widgets or Theme elements? =
Please use the option: "Disable widget CSS".

### I want the title as a link pointing to the selected Categorie page? =
Enable the check box "Make widget title link".

### Parse error: syntax error, unexpected T_FUNCTION in /home/www/blog/wp-content/plugins/category-posts/cat-posts.php on line 58 =
Some of the features that were used in that version needs PHP 5.3+.
We apologies for any headache this may cause you, but frankly it is better for you to check with your hosting company how can you upgrade the PHP version that you are using, and not only in order to use this plugin. PHP 5.2 should be considered insecure now, and for your own sake you should upgrade.
PHP 5.2 is very old and any support for it from the php developers had ended more then 5 years ago [php.net/eol.php](http://php.net/eol.php).
We know there are peopel how use PHP 5.2 [wordpress.org/about/stats](https://wordpress.org/about/stats/) and we can't imagine this people will have no other problems, if they don't update.

### You check the PHP version with phpversion(), but the widget don't work
Check also the .htaccess file, if there is an entry for an older PHP version.

## Screenshots
1. The widget configuration dialog.
2. Front end of the widget using a default WordPress Theme.
3. Use shortcode [catposts] in the content and edit options in the customizer.

## Changelog
#### [Read more on our blog ...](http://tiptoppress.com/category/category-posts-widget?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=changelog_cpw&utm_medium=web)
#### 4.7.4 - October 21th 2017
* Bugfix for filter by post status (note private)

#### 4.7.3 - October 10th 2017
* Add option to filter by post status
* Fixed footer section do not change when switching to and from "all posts"

#### 4.7.2 - February 25th 2017
* Add option to disable only the font styles
* Fixed if option 'Everything is a link' no closing anchor tag
* Fixed if option 'Everyting is a link' wrong layout
* Fixed when a manual excerpt is provided, use it instead of generating an automatic one
* Fixed if option 'Disable the built-in CSS' the thumbnail client-side cropping isn't disabled
* Fixed if option 'Disable the built-in CSS' title class is not rendered
* Fixed when having multi shortcodes, clicking on a checkbox label marks in any of them selects the one in the "first"
* Fixed if option 'CSS crop to requested size' for multi shortcodes
* Fixed for CSS animation

#### 4.7.1 - December 20th 2016
* Support multiple shortcodes in content
* Add option for post offset (use two or more widgets after another)
* Fluid images for Responsive Layouts
* Set a thumbnail as default thumbnail
* Add option to enable excerpt filters from Themes and plugins
* Add option to disable social buttons, banner, ... in the excerpt
* Add dropdownbox entry for 'all' categories
* Add option to disable subcategories
* Add insert shortcode buttons to the editor toolbar
* Use WP user profile for settings ('auto close' and if the shortcode button appears in the editor toolbar)
* Simple API for external use
* Support localization with translate.wordpress.org: Portuguese (Brazil) thank you [Henrique Vianna](https://profiles.wordpress.org/hvianna/) and German by [Daniel Floeter](https://profiles.wordpress.org/kometschuh/)
* Remove allow_html option (Instead we recommend to use the [manual excerpt](https://codex.wordpress.org/Excerpt#How_to_add_excerpts_to_posts) or we support this option furthermore in the [Term Posts Excerpt Extension](https://github.com/tiptoppress/term-posts-excerpt-extension) for the premium version)

#### 4.6.2 - August 28th 2016
* Fixed only five widget instances can be costumized with shortcodes.
* For editing shortcode adds a customizer link to the admin-bar if page/post is in edit mode.

#### 4.6.1 - June 5th 2016
* Add shortcode [catposts] edit options only in the customizer
* Keep panels open after save.
* Option to hide social buttons on output.

#### 4.1.9 - May 5th 2016
* Fixed undefined constant.

#### 4.1.8 - May 3th 2016
* Add mouse hover effects: blur
* Add option to choose allowed HTML in the excerpt
* Add Jetpack 'Sharing - Show buttons on posts' support
* Fixed division by zero bug (for small uploaded images)

##### 4.1.7 - April 14th 2016
* Fixed division by zero bug.

##### 4.1.6 - April 13th 2016
* Add option CSS cropping for thumbnails.
* Add option to set mouse hover effects for post thumbnail.
* Add option to change the excerpt more text.
* Add option to allow links in the excerpt
* Add filter 'widget_title' for the title
* Add option to hide post titles.

##### 4.1.5 - February 4th 2016
* Support for multi sites.
* Support for localization.
* Area UI.
* Meet new plugin author [mark-k](https://profiles.wordpress.org/mark-k/)

##### 4.1.4
* Added option exclude current post.
* Added option to hide posts which have no thumbnail.
* Added option to make the widget date link to the category page.
* Added option to link to the category page below posts list.
* Added option show post author.
* Added option to format the outputted date string.

##### 4.1.3
* Added option to hide widget, if category have currently no posts.

##### 4.1.2
* Fixed hide title bug.

##### 4.1.1
* Added option to put thumbnail on top.
* Added option to show/hide the title.
* Fixed no background bug.

##### 4.1.0
* Added PHP5 Constructor.
* Added Option to allow/disallow widget CSS.
* Now, compatible with WordPress 4.3.
* Meet new plugin author [kometschuh](https://profiles.wordpress.org/kometschuh)

##### 4.0
* Added CSS file for post styling.
* Now compatible with latest versions of WordPress.

##### 3.3
* Fixed random sort bug.

##### 3.2
* Added option to change ordering of posts. Defaults to showing newest posts first.

##### 3.1
* Fixed a bug in the thumbnail size registration routine.

##### 3.0
* Added support for WP 2.9's post thumbnail feature.
* Removed support for Simple Post Thumbnails plugin.
* Added option to show the post date.
* Added option to set the excerpt length.
* Added option to show the number of comments.

##### 2.3
* Really tried to fix bug where wp_query global was getting over written by manually instantiating a WP_Query object.

##### 2.1
* Fixed bug where wp_query global was getting over written.

##### 2.0
* Updated to use the WP 2.8 widget API.
* Added support for [Simple Post Thumbnails plugin](http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/simple-post-thumbnails/).

Commit message:

YouTube video link to the faqs

README.md, after:

Category Posts Widget
=====================

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/mkrdip/category-posts-widget](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/mkrdip/category-posts-widget?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Adds a widget that shows the most recent posts from a single category.

**Contributors:** Mrinal, Mark, Daniel

**Donate link:** http://mkrdip.me/donate

**License:** GPLv2 or later

**License URI:** http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html


## Description
Category Posts Widget is a light widget designed to do one thing and do it well: display the most recent posts from a certain category.

### Term and Category based Posts Widget
A <a target="_blank" href="http://tiptoppress.com/?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=premium_widget_cpw&utm_medium=web">premium version</a> of this free widget here created for big Wordpress sites.
We've also started creating free widget extensions for the Premium Widget. The first extension is the <a href="https://github.com/tiptoppress/excerpt-extension">Excerpt Extension</a>.

### Premium features
* "Post List Alterations"
* Masonry (Responsive grid layouts)
* Grid and Column full page layouts
* Slider (Vertical and horizontal)
* More complex ways to filter (all, any, exclude, also childes, AND or just OR rule)
* Categories, Custom Post Types, Taxonomies, Events, Products, ...
* Full background post images
* Mouse hover effects for post thumbnail
* <a target="_blank" href="http://tiptoppress.com/category/extensions/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=premium_features_extensions&utm_medium=web">Extensions</a>
* E-Mail support
* All free features
* Free trail on localhost
* More [examples on the demo pages](http://demo.tiptoppress.com/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=premium_features_demo&utm_medium=web)

### Features
* Shortcode (Easily change all Shortcode options in the customizer).
* Support multiple shortcodes at the same post.
* Add option for post offset (use two or more widgets after another).
* Add UI buttons in the editor toolbar to insert shortcode.
* Option to touch device friendly "everything is a link".
* For editing shortcode adds a Customizer link to the admin-bar ("With one click to the Customizer").
* Option to show post thumbnail & set dimensions by width & height.
* Option for <a target="_blank" href="http://tiptoppress.com/css-image-crop/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=features_crop_cpw&utm_medium=web">client-side cropped thumbnail dimensions</a> by width & height.
* Fluid images for Responsive Layouts.
* Option to set mouse hover effects for post thumbnail.
* Set a thumbnail as default thumbnail.
* Add option to enable excerpt filters from Themes and plugins.
* Jetpack 'Social buttons on posts' support.
* Add option to disable social buttons, banner, ... in the excerpt.
* Option to change ordering of posts.
* Set which category the posts should come form.
* Add dropdownbox entry for 'all' categories.
* Option to filter by post status.
* Set how many posts to show.
* Option to hide widget, if category have currently no posts.
* Add option to disable subcategories.
* Option to put thumbnail on top.
* Option to hide posts which have no thumbnail.
* Option exclude current post.
* Option to hide the widget title and post titles.
* Option to make the widget title link to the category page.
* Option to show the post excerpt, set the length, allow HTML and change 'more' text.
* Option show post author.
* Option to show the comment count.
* Option to show the post date.
* Option to make the widget date link to the category page.
* Option to format the outputted date string.
* Option to link to the category page below posts list.
* Option to disable the widget CSS or more granular control of default styling with not apply the font styles.
* Multiple widgets.
* Multi sites support.
* Support localization with translate.wordpress.org
* Use WP user profile for settings ('auto close' and if the shortcode button appears in the editor toolbar).

### Documentation
* Full documentation on [tiptoppress.com](http://tiptoppress.com/category-posts-widget/documentation-4-7/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=documentation_4_7_cpw&utm_medium=web)
* Shortcode: Use [catposts] [in the content and edit options in the customizer](http://tiptoppress.com/use-shortcode-to-add-category-posts-widget-to-the-content/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=documentation_shortcode_cpw&utm_medium=web)
* Formatting date and time: See <a target="_blank" href="https://codex.wordpress.org/Formatting_Date_and_Time">Formatting Date and Time</a>

### Contribute
While using this plugin if you find any bug or any conflict, please submit an issue at
[Github](https://github.com/tiptoppress/category-posts-widget) (If possible with a pull request).

## Installation
### Automatic installation
Automatic installation is the easiest option as WordPress handles the file transfers itself and you don’t need to leave your web browser. To do an automatic install of Category Posts Widget,

1. log in to your WordPress dashboard, navigate to the Plugins menu and click Add New.
2. In the search field type “Category Posts Widget” and click Search Plugins.
3. Once you’ve found plugin, you can install it by simply clicking “Install Now”.
4. Then, go to plugins page of WordPress admin activate the plugin.
5. Now, goto the Widgets page of the Appearance section and configure the Category Posts widget.

### Manual installation
1. Download the plugin.
2. Upload it to the plugins folder of your blog.
3. Activate the plugin through the 'Plugins' menu in WordPress
4. Now, goto the Widgets page of the Appearance section and configure the Category Posts widget.

## Upgrade Notice
* Please consider to re-configure the widget as the latest version has numerous changes from previous.
* Version 4.0 uses CSS file for styling the widget in front end.
* Version 3.0 or later version uses WordPress 2.9's built in post thumbnail functionality.

## Frequently Asked Questions
= How Category Posts Widget work with SiteOrigin Page Builder =
Please add the widget with shortcode [catposts] inside a editor widget which is placed to a SiteOrigin Page Builder row.
We also create a YouTube video: [How Category Posts Widget work with SiteOrigin Page Builder](http://tiptoppress.com/how-category-posts-widget-work-with-siteorigin-page-builder/)

= Thumb and Title not able to float left =
Check the option in the Thumbnails panels > "Show thumbnails above text".
Then add this custom CSS:

.cat-post-thumbnail {
	float: left !important;
}

If you use wordpress 4.7 or higher you can [add this custom CSS with the customizer](http://kometschuh.de/Easily-adding-custom-CSS-using-the-WordPress-Theme-customizer.html/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=faq_cpw&utm_medium=web)

For more layout options please try our premium widget: [Term and Category based Posts Widget](http://tiptoppress.com/term-and-category-based-posts-widget/?utm_source=wordpress_org&utm_campaign=faq_cpw&utm_medium=web).

= The font-size is different from that of other widgets or Theme elements? =
Please use the option: "Disable widget CSS".

### I want the title as a link pointing to the selected Categorie page? =
Enable the check box "Make widget title link".

### Parse error: syntax error, unexpected T_FUNCTION in /home/www/blog/wp-content/plugins/category-posts/cat-posts.php on line 58 =
Some of the features that were used in that version needs PHP 5.3+.
We apologies for any headache this may cause you, but frankly it is better for you to check with your hosting company how can you upgrade the PHP version that you are using, and not only in order to use this plugin. PHP 5.2 should be considered insecure now, and for your own sake you should upgrade.
PHP 5.2 is very old and any support for it from the php developers had ended more then 5 years ago [php.net/eol.php](http://php.net/eol.php).
We know there are peopel how use PHP 5.2 [wordpress.org/about/stats](https://wordpress.org/about/stats/) and we can't imagine this people will have no other problems, if they don't update.

### You check the PHP version with phpversion(), but the widget don't work
Check also the .htaccess file, if there is an entry for an older PHP version.

## Screenshots
1. The widget configuration dialog.
2. Front end of the widget using a default WordPress Theme.
3. Use shortcode [catposts] in the content and edit options in the customizer.

## Changelog
#### [Read more on our blog ...](http://tiptoppress.com/category/category-posts-widget?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=changelog_cpw&utm_medium=web)
#### 4.7.4 - October 21th 2017
* Bugfix for filter by post status (note private)

#### 4.7.3 - October 10th 2017
* Add option to filter by post status
* Fixed footer section do not change when switching to and from "all posts"

#### 4.7.2 - February 25th 2017
* Add option to disable only the font styles
* Fixed if option 'Everything is a link' no closing anchor tag
* Fixed if option 'Everyting is a link' wrong layout
* Fixed when a manual excerpt is provided, use it instead of generating an automatic one
* Fixed if option 'Disable the built-in CSS' the thumbnail client-side cropping isn't disabled
* Fixed if option 'Disable the built-in CSS' title class is not rendered
* Fixed when having multi shortcodes, clicking on a checkbox label marks in any of them selects the one in the "first"
* Fixed if option 'CSS crop to requested size' for multi shortcodes
* Fixed for CSS animation

#### 4.7.1 - December 20th 2016
* Support multiple shortcodes in content
* Add option for post offset (use two or more widgets after another)
* Fluid images for Responsive Layouts
* Set a thumbnail as default thumbnail
* Add option to enable excerpt filters from Themes and plugins
* Add option to disable social buttons, banner, ... in the excerpt
* Add dropdownbox entry for 'all' categories
* Add option to disable subcategories
* Add insert shortcode buttons to the editor toolbar
* Use WP user profile for settings ('auto close' and if the shortcode button appears in the editor toolbar)
* Simple API for external use
* Support localization with translate.wordpress.org: Portuguese (Brazil) thank you [Henrique Vianna](https://profiles.wordpress.org/hvianna/) and German by [Daniel Floeter](https://profiles.wordpress.org/kometschuh/)
* Remove allow_html option (Instead we recommend to use the [manual excerpt](https://codex.wordpress.org/Excerpt#How_to_add_excerpts_to_posts) or we support this option furthermore in the [Term Posts Excerpt Extension](https://github.com/tiptoppress/term-posts-excerpt-extension) for the premium version)

#### 4.6.2 - August 28th 2016
* Fixed only five widget instances can be costumized with shortcodes.
* For editing shortcode adds a customizer link to the admin-bar if page/post is in edit mode.

#### 4.6.1 - June 5th 2016
* Add shortcode [catposts] edit options only in the customizer
* Keep panels open after save.
* Option to hide social buttons on output.

#### 4.1.9 - May 5th 2016
* Fixed undefined constant.

#### 4.1.8 - May 3th 2016
* Add mouse hover effects: blur
* Add option to choose allowed HTML in the excerpt
* Add Jetpack 'Sharing - Show buttons on posts' support
* Fixed division by zero bug (for small uploaded images)

##### 4.1.7 - April 14th 2016
* Fixed division by zero bug.

##### 4.1.6 - April 13th 2016
* Add option CSS cropping for thumbnails.
* Add option to set mouse hover effects for post thumbnail.
* Add option to change the excerpt more text.
* Add option to allow links in the excerpt
* Add filter 'widget_title' for the title
* Add option to hide post titles.

##### 4.1.5 - February 4th 2016
* Support for multi sites.
* Support for localization.
* Area UI.
* Meet new plugin author [mark-k](https://profiles.wordpress.org/mark-k/)

##### 4.1.4
* Added option exclude current post.
* Added option to hide posts which have no thumbnail.
* Added option to make the widget date link to the category page.
* Added option to link to the category page below posts list.
* Added option show post author.
* Added option to format the outputted date string.

##### 4.1.3
* Added option to hide widget, if category have currently no posts.

##### 4.1.2
* Fixed hide title bug.

##### 4.1.1
* Added option to put thumbnail on top.
* Added option to show/hide the title.
* Fixed no background bug.

##### 4.1.0
* Added PHP5 Constructor.
* Added Option to allow/disallow widget CSS.
* Now, compatible with WordPress 4.3.
* Meet new plugin author [kometschuh](https://profiles.wordpress.org/kometschuh)

##### 4.0
* Added CSS file for post styling.
* Now compatible with latest versions of WordPress.

##### 3.3
* Fixed random sort bug.

##### 3.2
* Added option to change ordering of posts. Defaults to showing newest posts first.

##### 3.1
* Fixed a bug in the thumbnail size registration routine.

##### 3.0
* Added support for WP 2.9's post thumbnail feature.
* Removed support for Simple Post Thumbnails plugin.
* Added option to show the post date.
* Added option to set the excerpt length.
* Added option to show the number of comments.

##### 2.3
* Really tried to fix bug where wp_query global was getting over written by manually instantiating a WP_Query object.

##### 2.1
* Fixed bug where wp_query global was getting over written.

##### 2.0
* Updated to use the WP 2.8 widget API.
* Added support for [Simple Post Thumbnails plugin](http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/simple-post-thumbnails/).
